Doc for controller-runtime logger based logging. (#2903)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder/references/logging.md

* `--zap-encoder`: Zap log encoding ('json' or 'console')
* `--zap-log-level`: Zap Level to configure the verbosity of logging. Can be one of 'debug', 'info', 'error',
			       or any integer value > 0 which corresponds to custom debug levels of increasing verbosity")
* `--zap-stacktrace-level`: Zap Level at and above which stacktraces are captured (one of 'warn' or 'error')

Consult the controller-runtime [godocs][logging_godocs] for more detailed flag information.

### A simple example

Operators set the logger for all operator logging in [`cmd/manager/main.go`][code_set_logger]. To illustrate how this works, try out this simple example:

```Go
package main

import (
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log/zap"  
	logf "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log"
)

var globalLog = logf.Log.WithName("global")
func main() {
	// Add the zap logger flag set to the CLI. The flag set must
	// be added before calling flag.Parse().
	opts := zap.Options{}
	opts.BindFlags(flag.CommandLine)
	flag.Parse()
    
	logger := zap.New(zap.UseFlagOptions(&opts))
	logf.SetLogger(logger)

	scopedLog := logf.Log.WithName("scoped")

	globalLog.Info("Printing at INFO level")

> 	globalLog.V(1).Info("Printing at DEBUG level")

Reviewer: why this is debugging? When the debug level was configured in the example? Why we have `globalLog` and `scopedLog `?

Author: This example has been taken from operator-sdk logging doc, The ask was to modify existing logging doc to include controller-runtime flags.

	scopedLog.Info("Printing at INFO level")

> 	scopedLog.V(1).Info("Printing at DEBUG level")

Reviewer: wdyt bout use some name as zapLog to make clear that it is that one which will be manipulated by the command line options?

Author: This snippet of code is for a simple example, and as stated above, tried to keep it similar to operator-sdk logging doc.

}
```

#### Output using the defaults
```console
$ go run main.go
INFO[0000] Running the operator locally in namespace default. 
{"level":"info","ts":1587741740.407766,"logger":"global","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}

> {"level":"info","ts":1587741740.407855,"logger":"scoped","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}

Reviewer: Wy here the output does not match with the example?

Author: I am not sure I understand, What is not matching?

Reviewer: The output msg is not == the values used in the example. Is this output obtained from the code above?

Author: ![CASE1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56410941/81178351-10439980-8f76-11ea-98bf-803cacaedd6b.png)

	flag.Parse()

	logger := zap.New(zap.UseFlagOptions(&opts))
	logf.SetLogger(logger)
...
```

With:

```Go
	import(
	...
	zaplogfmt "github.com/sykesm/zap-logfmt"
	uzap "go.uber.org/zap"
	"go.uber.org/zap/zapcore"
	logf "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log"
	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log/zap"
	...
)
	configLog := uzap.NewProductionEncoderConfig()
	configLog.EncodeTime = func(ts time.Time, encoder zapcore.PrimitiveArrayEncoder) {
		encoder.AppendString(ts.UTC().Format(time.RFC3339Nano))
	}
	logfmtEncoder := zaplogfmt.NewEncoder(configLog)

	// Construct a new logr.logger.
	logger := zap.New(zap.UseDevMode(true), zap.WriteTo(os.Stdout), zap.Encoder(logfmtEncoder))
	logf.SetLogger(logger)
```

**NOTE**: For this example, you will need to add the module `"github.com/sykesm/zap-logfmt"` to your project. Run `go get -u github.com/sykesm/zap-logfmt`.

#### Output using custom zap logger

```console
$ go run main.go
ts=2020-04-30T20:35:59.551268Z level=info logger=global msg="Printing at INFO level"
ts=2020-04-30T20:35:59.551314Z level=debug logger=global msg="Printing at DEBUG level"
ts=2020-04-30T20:35:59.551318Z level=info logger=scoped msg="Printing at INFO level"

> ts=2020-04-30T20:35:59.55132Z level=debug logger=scoped msg="Printing at DEBUG level"

Reviewer: Where the names `global ` and `scoped` was added above?

Author: yes, they are coming from below lines.
```Go
	globalLog.Info("Printing at INFO level")
	globalLog.V(1).Info("Printing at DEBUG level")
	scopedLog.Info("Printing at INFO level")
	scopedLog.V(1).Info("Printing at DEBUG level")
```

Reviewer: @bharathi-tenneti I am unable to find the globalLog and scopedLog in the code of the specific example. It shows not be the output of this example. 

c/c @hasbro17

Reviewer 2: @camilamacedo86 Can you please post the full example that you're testing so @bharathi-tenneti can verify the output that you're generating.

Author: ![CASE 2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56410941/81178432-2f422b80-8f76-11ea-8101-6843f83c8bfa.png)

Reviewer: Your code in the IDEA is not == the example provided. See: https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/2903/files/5aba3773b3ff4b4fbc8af5d721eecab42a24481c#diff-8316575205c0a990fd2aa963efe4730dR94-R115

Author: As discussed on slack, It is a running example, where you just replace CASE 1 with CASE 2, rest of the code block remains the same.

```

By using `sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log`, your logger is propagated through `controller-runtime`. Any logs produced by `controller-runtime` code will be through your logger, and therefore have the same formatting and destination.

### Setting flags when running locally

> When running locally with `make run ENABLE_WEBHOOKS=false`, you can use the `ARGS` var to pass additional flags to your operator, including the zap flags. For example:

Reviewer: I understand that we should suggest use the operator-sdk commands and not make one since shows that make cannot work in win SO. So, I think it would be `operator-sdk run --local --operator"ENABLE_WEBHOOKS=false"`

Author: We have been using `make` targets in the [quickstart](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/website/content/en/docs/kubebuilder/quickstart.md), hence using the same here.

Reviewer: HI @joelanford, 

I understood that we should avoid use the make. Am I right? Should we no use the sdk commands here?

```console

> $ make run ARGS="--zap-encoder=console" ENABLE_WEBHOOKS=false

Reviewer: Cannot we use the sdk commands to do it?

Author: We have been using make targets in the quickstart, hence using the same here.

```
Make sure to have your `run` target to take `ARGS` as shown below in `Makefile`.

```makefile
# Run against the configured Kubernetes cluster in ~/.kube/config
run: generate fmt vet manifests
	go run ./main.go $(ARGS)

> ```

Reviewer: same here.

Author: We have been using make targets in the quickstart, hence using the same here.

In the simple example below, we add the zap flagset to the operator's command line flags with `BindFlags()`, and then set the controller-runtime logger with `zap.Options{}`.

By default, `zap.Options{}` will return a logger that is ready for production use. It uses a JSON encoder, logs starting at the `info` level. To customize the default behavior, users can use the zap flagset and specify flags on the command line. The zap flagset includes the following flags that can be used to configure the logger:

* `--zap-devel`: Development Mode defaults(encoder=consoleEncoder,logLevel=Debug,stackTraceLevel=Warn)
			  Production Mode defaults(encoder=jsonEncoder,logLevel=Info,stackTraceLevel=Error)
* `--zap-encoder`: Zap log encoding ('json' or 'console')
* `--zap-log-level`: Zap Level to configure the verbosity of logging. Can be one of 'debug', 'info', 'error',
			       or any integer value > 0 which corresponds to custom debug levels of increasing verbosity")
* `--zap-stacktrace-level`: Zap Level at and above which stacktraces are captured (one of 'warn' or 'error')

> Please refer [godocs][logging_godocs] for more detailed flag information.

Reviewer 2: Nit: rephrase.
```suggestion
Consult the controller-runtime [godocs][logging_godocs] for more detailed flag information.
```

```console
$ go run main.go
INFO[0000] Running the operator locally in namespace default. 
{"level":"info","ts":1587741740.407766,"logger":"global","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
{"level":"info","ts":1587741740.407855,"logger":"scoped","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
```

#### Output overriding the log level to 1 (debug)
```console
$ go run main.go --zap-log-level=debug
INFO[0000] Running the operator locally in namespace default. 
{"level":"info","ts":1587741837.602911,"logger":"global","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
{"level":"debug","ts":1587741837.602964,"logger":"global","msg":"Printing at DEBUG level"}
{"level":"info","ts":1587741837.6029708,"logger":"scoped","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
{"level":"debug","ts":1587741837.602973,"logger":"scoped","msg":"Printing at DEBUG level"}
```
## Custom zap logger

In order to use a custom zap logger, [`zap`][controller_runtime_zap] from controller-runtime can be utilized to wrap it in a `logr` implementation.

Below is an example illustrating the use of [`zap-logfmt`][logfmt_repo] in logging.

### Example

In your `main.go` file, replace the current implementation for logs inside the `main` function:

```Go

> import(
> 	...
> 	zaplogfmt "github.com/sykesm/zap-logfmt"
> 	uzap "go.uber.org/zap"
> 	"go.uber.org/zap/zapcore"
> 	logf "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log"
> 	"sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log/zap"
> 	...
> )

Reviewer 2: `zaplogfmt `, `uzap`, and `zapcore` are the new imports used in the updated example. Not here in the current code.
Move this import block down into the the replacement code block. And remove it from here.
```suggestion
```

## Default zap logger

Operator SDK uses a `zap`-based `logr` backend when scaffolding new projects. To assist with configuring and using this logger, the SDK includes several helper functions.

In the simple example below, we add the zap flagset to the operator's command line flags with `BindFlags()`, and then set the controller-runtime logger with `zap.Options{}`.

By default, `zap.Options{}` will return a logger that is ready for production use. It uses a JSON encoder, logs starting at the `info` level. To customize the default behavior, users can use the zap flagset and specify flags on the command line. The zap flagset includes the following flags that can be used to configure the logger:

* `--zap-devel`: Development Mode defaults(encoder=consoleEncoder,logLevel=Debug,stackTraceLevel=Warn)
			  Production Mode defaults(encoder=jsonEncoder,logLevel=Info,stackTraceLevel=Error)
* `--zap-encoder`: Zap log encoding ('json' or 'console')
* `--zap-log-level`: Zap Level to configure the verbosity of logging. Can be one of 'debug', 'info', 'error',
			       or any integer value > 0 which corresponds to custom debug levels of increasing verbosity")

> * `--zap-stacktrace-level`: Zap Level at and above which stacktraces are captured (one of 'warn' or 'error')

Reviewer 2: Can we add a line pointing to the upstream godocs that list all the flags.
Chances are this doc could be outdated anytime new flags are added.
https://godoc.org/github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime/pkg/log/zap#Options.BindFlags

    flag.Parse()
    
    logger := zap.New(zap.UseFlagOptions(&opts))
    logf.SetLogger(logger)

	scopedLog := logf.Log.WithName("scoped")

	globalLog.Info("Printing at INFO level")
	globalLog.V(1).Info("Printing at DEBUG level")
	scopedLog.Info("Printing at INFO level")
	scopedLog.V(1).Info("Printing at DEBUG level")
}
```

#### Output using the defaults
```console
$ go run main.go
INFO[0000] Running the operator locally in namespace default. 
{"level":"info","ts":1587741740.407766,"logger":"global","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
{"level":"info","ts":1587741740.407855,"logger":"scoped","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
```

#### Output overriding the log level to 1 (debug)
```console
$ go run main.go --zap-log-level=debug
INFO[0000] Running the operator locally in namespace default. 
{"level":"info","ts":1587741837.602911,"logger":"global","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
{"level":"debug","ts":1587741837.602964,"logger":"global","msg":"Printing at DEBUG level"}
{"level":"info","ts":1587741837.6029708,"logger":"scoped","msg":"Printing at INFO level"}
{"level":"debug","ts":1587741837.602973,"logger":"scoped","msg":"Printing at DEBUG level"}
```
## Custom zap logger

> In order to use a custom zap logger, [`zap`][controller_runtime_zap] from controller-runtime can be utilized to wrap it in a logr implementation.

Reviewer 3: wrap logr in tick marks i.e. `logr`

Below is an example illustrating the use of [`zap-logfmt`][logfmt_repo] in logging.

### Example

In your `main.go` file, replace the current implementation for logs inside the `main` function:

```Go
...
// Add the zap logger flag set to the CLI. The flag set must
// be added before calling flag.Parse().
	opts := zap.Options{}
	opts.BindFlags(flag.CommandLine)
	flag.Parse()

	logger := zap.New(zap.UseFlagOptions(&opts))
	logf.SetLogger(logger)
...
```

With:

```Go
	configLog := zapcr.NewProductionEncoderConfig()
	configLog.EncodeTime = func(ts time.Time, encoder zapcore.PrimitiveArrayEncoder) {
		encoder.AppendString(ts.UTC().Format(time.RFC3339Nano))
	}
	logfmtEncoder := zaplogfmt.NewEncoder(configLog)

	// Construct a new logr.logger.
	logger := zap.New(zap.UseDevMode(true), zap.WriteTo(os.Stdout), zap.Encoder(logfmtEncoder))

	// Set the controller logger to log, which will
	// be propagated through the whole operator, generating
	// uniform and structured logs.

> 	logf.SetLogger(logger)

Reviewer 2: This line is unchanged. And `Set the controller logger to log` isn't quite right since the variable here is logger.
So do we need this line?

```

Ensure that the following additional imports are being used:

```Go
import(
	...
	zaplogfmt "github.com/sykesm/zap-logfmt"

> 	zapcr "go.uber.org/zap"

Reviewer 2: Why is this aliased as `zapcr`? I almost read it as zap-controller-runtime but it's actually the upstream zap pkg.
Maybe rename this as `uzap`. Or alias the controller-runtime one. `zapcr "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log/zap"`.

Reviewer 2: @bharathi-tenneti Can we also move these imports up into the above snippet? It's hard to read that example without the imports first. Just make it into one complete example block.

---

> title: Kubebuilder Logging

Reviewer: Why the name of it should be Kuebebuilder Logging? 

Also, should we really doc all as Kubebuider? Is not it strange image that you try to use a tool and then when we check its doc all information is about another similar tool? The base layout with the integration is for now equals kubebuilder but will not it be customized and things will not be added on top? Is not it now an SDK content? 

c/c @estroz @hasbro17 @joelanford

Reviewer 2: Yeah agreed, there's no reason for our docs to phrase things as `Kubebuilder XYZ`.
Even in the quickstart guide the only time I mention Kubebuilder is when I'm referring to upstream docs.

And the logger comes from the controller-runtime so it's not even kubebuilder specific.

* `--zap-devel`: Development Mode defaults(encoder=consoleEncoder,logLevel=Debug,stackTraceLevel=Warn)
			  Production Mode defaults(encoder=jsonEncoder,logLevel=Info,stackTraceLevel=Error)
* `--zap-encoder`: Zap log encoding ('json' or 'console')
* `--zap-log-level`: Zap Level to configure the verbosity of logging. Can be one of 'debug', 'info', 'error',
			       or any integer value > 0 which corresponds to custom debug levels of increasing verbosity")
* `--zap-stacktrace-level`: Zap Level at and above which stacktraces are captured (one of 'warn' or 'error')

### A simple example

Operators set the logger for all operator logging in [`cmd/manager/main.go`][code_set_logger]. To illustrate how this works, try out this simple example:

```Go
package main

import (
    "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log/zap"  
	logf "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/log"
)

var globalLog = logf.Log.WithName("global")
func main() {
	// Add the zap logger flag set to the CLI. The flag set must
	// be added before calling flag.Parse().
	opts := zap.Options{}
	opts.BindFlags(flag.CommandLine)
    flag.Parse()
    
    logger := zap.New(zap.UseFlagOptions(&opts))
    logf.SetLogger(logger)

> 

Reviewer: indentation nit ˆ

Reviewer 3: @bharathi-tenneti looks like a mixture of tabs and spaces. use one or the other for the example.

```

### Setting flags when deploying to a cluster

When deploying your operator to a cluster you can set additional flags using an `args` array in your operator's `container` spec. For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: memcached-operator
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      name: memcached-operator
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: memcached-operator
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: memcached-operator
      containers:
        - name: memcached-operator
          # Replace this with the built image name
          image: REPLACE_IMAGE
          command:
            - memcached-operator
          args:
            - "--zap-log-level=debug"
            - "--zap-encoder=console"
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          env:
            - name: WATCH_NAMESPACE
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.namespace
            - name: POD_NAME
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.name
            - name: OPERATOR_NAME
              value: "memcached-operator"

> ```

Reviewer: should it cover the new layout or the legacy one? 
If it is for the new one so is missing adapt it. Note that the kube is not == here

Author: @camilamacedo86 Are you talking about the example YAML?

Reviewer: Yes, this code is valid of SDK layout but it came not from kube layout. Should we not do it based on the new layout? Did you check if is really possible follow up all steps here in the new layout?

Reviewer 2: I think what @camilamacedo86 means is that we need to use the manifests scaffolded by the new CLI in our examples, i.e this one:
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk-samples/blob/master/go/kubebuilder/memcached-operator/config/manager/manager.yaml

Reviewer: Yep, tks @hasbro17 I updated the first comment to see if is more clear as well.

Reviewer 3: @bharathi-tenneti if the above comments have not been addressed, please address them.

Author: Above comments have been addressed.

Reviewer 2: @bharathi-tenneti Just a heads up: you can click the `Resolve conversation` button to indicate that it's been addressed.
